---
title: Capshare API

includes:
  - common_stock
  - preferred_stock
  - issuances
  - http_responses

search: true
---

# Introduction

Capshare's REST API allows end users to manage and retrieve every aspect of a cap table. Here you will find everything you need to know in order to interact with the API.

> This documentation uses ruby syntax

```ruby
# Actual format of the response body generated by the API:

"[{\"id\":1,\"shares\":999},{\"id\":2,\"shares\":555}]"

# Ruby formatted response body for illustration purposes:

[
  { id: 1, shares: 999 },
  { id: 2, shares: 555 },
]
```

**Ruby Syntax**  
While the API accepts and returns JSON responses, we use ruby syntax throughout the documentation to illustrate example requests and responses. This is simply because ruby is more human readable.

So for example, even though the actual body of a response looks like this:  

`"[{\"date\":\"2015-12-01\",\"id\":1,\"shares\":999}]"`

the documentation will use ruby syntax, as shown to the right.

# Versioning
Capshare strives to provide developers with stable APIs to integrate against while still being able to provide new and expanded functionality. To balance these two goals we provide different API versions and only add new features to the latest version of the API. This allows you to choose the best time to update your integration and take advantage of new features.

**Most Current Version**  
v1

**Specifying a Version**  
Versions are specified in the URL with the following pattern: `www.capshare.com/api/v1/...`.

# Authentication

The API is not public facing yet, so we rely on Devise for authentication at the moment.

<aside class="notice">
  We do not currently have a release date for a public-facing API.
</aside>

# Vernacular
The equity management vernacular can sometimes be confusing. Below are some definitions to help navigate the API and understand the domain.

### Security
A security is a negotiable financial instrument that holds some type of monetary value. It represents an ownership position in the company (via stock), a creditor relationship with the company (represented by owning the company's notes), or rights to ownership as represented by an option or warrant.

**Stock**  
A stock is a type of security that signifies ownership in a company and represents a claim on part of the company's assets and earnings.

There are two main types of stock: common and preferred. Common stock usually entitles the owner to vote at shareholders' meetings and to receive dividends. Preferred stock generally does not have voting rights, but has a higher claim on assets and earnings than the common shares. For example, owners of preferred stock receive dividends before common shareholders and have priority in the event that a company goes bankrupt, gets liquidated or gets acquired.

Also known as "shares" or "equity."

**Debt**  
A debt instrument is a paper or electronic obligation that enables the issuing party to raise funds by promising to repay a lender in accordance with terms of a contract. Types of debt instruments include notes, bonds, debentures, certificates, mortgages, leases or other agreements between a lender and a borrower. Most startups raise debt using convertible notes.

A convertible note is typically used by an angel investor funding a business without a clear company valuation. An early-stage investor may choose to avoid placing a value on the company to affect the terms under which later investors buy into the business. A convertible note is structured as a loan. Under the terms conditions of a convertible note, the balance automatically converts to equity when an investor later buys equity in the company.

**Option**  
An option is a financial derivative that represents a contract sold by one party (the option writer) to another party (the option holder). The contract offers the option holder the right, but not the obligation, to buy the company's stock at an agreed-upon price (the strike price) on or before a certain date (expiration date).

Options are most often issued to employees, directors and service providers as compensation for services to the company. They generally must be issued in connection with an equity incentive plan, which authorizes a certain number of the company's shares to be issued as compensation.

**Warrant**  
A warrant is a derivative that confers the right, but not the obligation, to buy the company's stock at a certain price (exercise price) before expiration (expiration date).

Warrants are most often issued to investors in connection with a preferred stock fundraising.

### Security Class
A security class is a designation applied to a specified type of security such as common or preferred stock. Companies that have more than one class of common or preferred stock usually identify a given class with alphabetic markers, such as "Common A" and "Common B," "Preferred A" and "Preferred B," or "Series A" and "Series B."

**Common**  
Common stock is a security that represents ownership in a corporation. Holders of common stock exercise control by electing a board of directors and voting on corporate policy. Common stockholders are on the bottom of the priority ladder for ownership structure. In the event of liquidation, common shareholders have rights to a company's assets only after note holders, preferred shareholders and other debtholders are paid in full. Common stock is issued mostly to founders and employees.

**Preferred**  
A preferred stock is a class of ownership in a corporation that has a higher claim on its assets and earnings than common stock. Preferred shares sometimes have a dividend that must be paid out before dividends to common shareholders. This class of stock usually has special economic rights, like liquidation preferences and participation rights. Preferred stock is generally issued to investors and is convertible into common stock.

### Transaction

A transaction represents a specific financial activity that has affected the cap table. These activities include, for example, equity issuances, sales, exercises, debt issuances and conversions, just to name a few. Transactions are executed for a given security, like a common stock or a convertible note.
